Build(Aegis)							  Build(Aegis)

NAME
	aegis -	project	change supervisor
	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993,	1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,	1998, 1999,
	2000, 2001, 2002, 2003,	2004, 2005, 2006, 2007,	2008, 2009, 2010,
	2011, 2012 Peter Miller

	The aegis program is distributed under the terms of the	GNU General
	Public License.	 See the LICENSE section, below, for more details.

	aegis (ee.j.iz)	n., a protection, a defense.

SPACE REQUIREMENTS
	You will need up to 250MB to unpack and	build the aegis	package.
	(This is the worst case	seen so	far, most systems have binaries
	smaller	than this, 200MB is more typical.)  Your mileage may vary.

SITE CONFIGURATION
	The aegis package is configured	using the configure shell script
	included in this distribution.

	The configure shell script attempts to guess correct values for
	various	system-dependent variables used	during compilation, and
	creates	the Makefile and common/config.h files.	 It also creates a
	shell script config.status that	you can	run in the future to recreate
	the current configuration.

   Upgrading
	The ./configure	script will look for an	existing install of Aegis and
	use the	existing configuration settings.  This works best if the
	version	you are	upgrading is 4.11 or later.

	To disable looking for an existing installation	(maybe because you
	want to	change the prefix), use	the ./configure	--with-no-aegis-
	configured option.

	To change the AEGIS_UID	and AEGIS_GID values (these control the
	ownership of Aegis' system files) you need to set environment
	variables of these names before	running	the ./configure	script.	 You
	almost never need to do	this, so if you	have no	idea what this is
	about, don't try to change them.

   Before You Start
	Before you start configuring, it is worth reading the OTHER USEFUL
	SOFTWARE section, below.

	The configure script checks for	the internationalization library and
	functions.  If your system does	not have them, it is worth fetching
	and installing GNU Gettext before you run the configure	script.	 Make
	sure that the msgfmt command from GNU Gettext appears earlier in your
	command	search PATH than the existing system ones, if any (this	is
	very important for SunOS and Solaris).	You must do the	GNU gettext
	install	before running the configure script, or	the error messages,
	even for English speakers, will	be terse and uninformative.  Remember
	to use the GNU gettext configure --with-gnu-gettext option if your
	system has native gettext tools.

	The configure script checks for	compression libraries and functions.
	If your	system does not	have them, you must download and install the
	GNU zlib compression library (see http://www.gzip.org/zlib/ for
	download) and the bzip2	compression library (see http://www.bzip.org/
	for download) before you run the configure script.  These libraries
	are essential, Aegis will not build without them.  (Note: zlib is not
	the same thing as zlibc	which does something completely	different.)

	The configure script checks for	the regular expression library and
	functions.  If your system does	not have them, it is worth fetching
	and installing GNU rx compression library before you run the configure
	script.	 (Note:	test 81	will fail if the POSIX regular expression
	functions are not available.)

	The GNOME libxml2 library (http://xmlsoft.org/)	is used	to parse XML,
	you will need version 1.8.17 or	later.	You do not have	to install the
	rest of	GNOME as this library is able to be used by itself.  This
	package	is not optional, you need it to	successfully build Aegis.

	The libcurl library (http://curl.haxx.se/) is used to fetch remote
	files.	This library is	optional, but some functionality, particularly
	aedist -replay,	will not work without it.  If you are using a package
	based install, you will	need the libcurl-dev or	libcurl-devel package
	as well.

   Running Configure
	Normally, you just cd to the directory containing aegis' source	code
	and type
		% ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc
		...lots	of output...
		%
	If you're using	csh on an old version of System	V, you might need to
	type
		% sh configure --sysconfdir=/etc
		...lots	of output...
		%
	instead	to prevent csh from trying to execute configure	itself.

	Running	configure takes	a minute or two.  While	it is running, it
	prints some messages that tell what it is doing.  If you don't want to
	see the	messages, run configure	with its standard output redirected to
	/dev/null; for example,
		% ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc	--quiet
		%

	There is a known problem with GCC 2.8.3	and HP/UX.  You	will need to
	set CFLAGS = -O	in the generated Makefile.  (The configure script sets
	it to CFLAGS = -O2.)  This is because the code optimization breaks the
	fingerprints.  If test 32 fails	(see below) this is probably the
	reason.

	There is a known problem with IRIX builds.  You	need to	use the
	following configuration
		# systune ncargs 0x8000
	to increase the	length of command lines.

	For mips IRIX and IRIX64 using the MipsPro compiler up to at least
	version	7.3 you	must specify the flag to allow -I for loop
	initializations. You may give either of:
		CXXFLAGS='LANG:ansi-for-init-scope=ON'
		CXXFLAGS='LANG:std'
	Also required is -lCio but configure will test for that. Even using
	that library there remains a link failure due to:
		Unresolved text	symbol
		"std::_List_base<undo_item*,std::allocator<undo_item*> >::clear(void)"
	on several of the binaries. A work around for this problem is not
	known at this time.

	By default, configure will arrange for the make	install	command	to
	install	the aegis package's files in /usr/local/bin,
	/usr/local/com/aegis, /usr/local/lib/aegis, /usr/local/man and
	/usr/local/share/aegis.	 There are a number of options which allow you
	to control the placement of these files.

	--prefix=PATH
		This specifies the path	prefix to be used in the installation.
		Defaults to /usr/local unless otherwise	specified.  The	rest
		of these building instructions assume you are using the
		default	/usr/local as the install prefix.

	--exec-prefix=PATH
		You can	specify	separate installation prefixes for
		architecture-specific files and	architecture-independent
		files.	Defaults to ${prefix} unless otherwise specified.

	--bindir=PATH
		This directory contains	executable programs.  On a network,
		this directory may be shared between machines with identical
		hardware and operating systems;	it may be mounted read-only.
		Defaults to ${exec_prefix}/bin unless otherwise	specified.

	--datadir=PATH
		This directory contains	installed data,	such as	the
		documentation, reports and shell scripts distributed with
		Aegis.	On a network, this directory may be shared between all
		machines; it may be mounted read-only.	Defaults to
		${prefix}/share/aegis unless otherwise specified.  An "aegis"
		directory will be appended if there is none in the specified
		path.

	--libdir=PATH
		This directory contains	installed data,	such as	the error
		message	catalogues.  On	a network, this	directory may be
		shared between machines	with identical hardware	and operating
		systems; it may	be mounted read-only.  Defaults	to
		${exec_prefix}/lib/aegis unless	otherwise specified.  An
		"aegis"	directory will be appended if there is none in the
		specified path.

	--mandir=PATH
		This directory contains	the on-line manual entries.  On	a
		network, this directory	may be shared between all machines; it
		may be mounted read-only.  Defaults to ${prefix}/man unless
		otherwise specified.

	--sharedstatedir=PATH
		This directory contains	share state information, such as the
		Aegis lock file, and information on the	location of the
		various	Aegis projects.	 On a network, this directory may be
		shared between all machines; it	MUST be	mounted	READ-WRITE.
		Defaults to ${prefix}/com/aegis	unless otherwise specified.
		An "aegis" directory will be appended if there is none in the
		specified path.

	--sysconfdir=PATH
		Location of system configuration files.	 You should almost
		always use the /etc directory.

	configure ignores any other arguments that you give it.

	On systems that	require	unusual	options	for compilation	or linking
	that the aegis package's configure script does not know	about, you can
	give configure initial values for variables by setting them in the
	environment.  In Bourne-compatible shells, you can do that on the
	command	line like this:
		$ CC='gcc -traditional'	LIBS=-lposix \
		  ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc
		...lots	of output...
		$
	Here are the make variables that you might want	to override with
	environment variables when running configure.

	Variable: CC
		C compiler program.  The default is cc.

	Variable: INSTALL
		Program	to use to install files.  The default is install if
		you have it, cp	otherwise.

	Variable: LIBS
		Libraries to link with,	in the form -lfoo -lbar.  The
		configure script will append to	this, rather than replace it.

	If you need to do unusual things to compile the	package, the author
	encourages you to figure out how configure could check whether to do
	them, and mail diffs or	instructions to	the author so that they	can be
	included in the	next release.

   Common Problem
	It is very common that other packages, such as gettext,	rx and zlib
	are installed using /usr/local as the prefix.  However,	the configure
	script can't work this out, even when it, too, is using	/usr/local as
	the prefix.

	To cope	with this, you need to say
		$ CPPFLAGS=-I/usr/local/include	LDFLAGS=-L/usr/local/lib \
		  ./configure --sysconfdir=/etc
		...lots	of output...
		$
	when running configure.	 Substitute the	appropriate prefix if you are
	using something	other than the default /usr/local prefix.  Watch the
	output... it should now	find your installed packages correctly.

   GCC Version 3.*
	On some	operating systems, notabley MacOsX Jaguar and Panther, g++
	versions 3.* will produce link-time errors complaining of missing
	typeinfo symbols.  The only known fix for this problem is to use GCC
	version	2.95, 2.96 or 4.*.  This means MacOsX Tiger does not have the
	problem.

   AIX Command Line Lengths
	For some reason, AIX has a very	short command line length limit	by
	default.  You can extend this by using the command
		$ systune ncargs 0x8000
		$
	You will need to do this to build Aegis.  It has some very long	link
	lines.

   PRIVILEGES
	There are a number of items in the generated Makefile and
	common/config.h	file which affect the way aegis	works.	If they	are
	altered	too far, aegis will not	be able	to function correctly.

	AEGIS_MIN_UID
		This specifies the minimum unprivileged	uid on your system.
		UIDs less than this may	not own	projects, or play any other
		role in	an aegis project.  The default value is	100.

	AEGIS_MIN_GID
		This specifies the minimum unprivileged	GID on your system.
		GIDs less than this may	not own	projects, or play any other
		role in	an aegis project.  The default value is	10.

	AEGIS_USER_UID
		This is	the owner of files used	by aegis to record pointers to
		your projects.	It is not used to own projects (i.e. it	must
		be less	than AEGIS_MIN_UID).  If possible, the configure
		script tries to	work out what value was	used previously, but
		you must specify the --prefix option correctly for this	to
		work.  Because of operating system inconsistencies, this is
		specified numerically so that aegis will work across NFS.  The
		default	value is 3.

	AEGIS_USER_GID
		This is	the group of files used	by aegis to record pointers to
		your projects.	It is not used as the group for	projects (i.e.
		it must	be less	than AEGIS_MIN_GID).  If possible, the
		configure script tries to work out what	value was used
		previously, but	you must specify the --prefix option correctly
		for this to work.  Because of operating	system
		inconsistencies, this is specified numerically so that aegis
		will work across NFS.  The default value is 3.

	DEFAULT_UMASK
		When aegis runs	commands for you, or creates files or
		directories for	you, it	will use the defined project umask.
		This is	a project attribute, and may be	altered	using the
		aepa(1)	command.  The DEFAULT_UMASK is the umask initially
		given to all new projects created by the aenpr(1) command.
		The default value of DEFAULT_UMASK is 026.  See	the comments
		in the common/config.h file for	an explanation of the
		alternatives.

	It is required that aegis run set-uid-root for all of its
	functionality to be available.	It is NOT possible to create an
	"aegis"	account	and make aegis run set-uid-aegis.  This	is because
	aegis does things as various different user IDs, sometimes as many as
	3 in the one command.  This allows aegis to use	UNIX security rather
	than inventing its own,	and also allows	aegis to work across NFS.  To
	be able	to do these things, aegis must be set-uid-root.	 Appendix D of
	the Aegis User Guide explains why aegis	must run set-uid-root; please
	read it	if you have concerns.

   Remember Your Settings
	It is important	to remember your configuration settings.  This way, it
	will be	a simple matter	when it	comes time to upgrade Aegis.

BUILDING AEGIS
	All you	should need to do is use the
		% make
		...lots	of output...
		%
	command	and wait.  When	this finishes you should see a directory
	called bin containing several files: aegis, aereport, aefind, aefp,
	and fmtgen.

	aegis	The aegis program is a project change supervisor.

	aefp	The aefp program may be	used to	"fingerprint" files.  It is
		used to	test Aegis (see	the testing section, below) but	it
		isn't installed.

	aereport
		The aereport program is	used to	query Aegis' database.

	aefind	The aefind program is used to find files.

	fmtgen	The fmtgen program is a	utility	used to	build the aegis
		package; it is not intended for	general	use and	should not be
		installed.

	You can	remove the program binaries and	object files from the source
	directory by using the
		% make clean
		...lots	of output...
		%
	command.  To remove all	of the above files, and	also remove the
	Makefile and common/config.h and config.status files, use the
		% make distclean
		...lots	of output...
		%
	command.

	The file aux/configure.in is used to create configure by a GNU program
	called autoconf.  You only need	to know	this if	you want to regenerate
	configure using	a newer	version	of autoconf.

   Upgrading
	When upgrading from one	release	to a newer one,	it is important	that
	all of the machines on your network are	running	the same release of
	Aegis.	This minimizes the possibility of database incompatibilities.
	In general, Aegis is backwards compatible with earlier releases, but
	not forwards compatible	in the face of new capabilities.

OTHER USEFUL SOFTWARE
	Before describing how to test aegis, you may need to grab some other
	free software, because the tests require it in some cases, and because
	it is generally	useful in others.

	GNOME libxml2
		The GNOME libxml2 library (http://xmlsoft.org/)	is used	to
		parse XML.  Version 1.8.17 or later.  You do not have to
		install	the rest of GNOME as this library is able to be	used
		by itself.  This package is not	optional, you need it to
		successfully build Aegis.

	cook	This is	a dependency maintenance tool (DMT).  An example of a
		well-known DMT is make(1), however this	old faithful is	mostly
		not sufficiently capable to meet the demands placed on it by
		the aegis program, but cook certainly is.  The cook package is
		written	by the same author as aegis.  The cook package is
		necessary if test 11 is	to be meaningful.  It is also used in
		the documentation.  The	cook program may be found at the same
		archive	site as	the aegis program.  The	cook program is
		available under	the terms of the GNU General Public License.

	GNU diff
		If the diff(1) utility supplied	by your	flavor of Unix does
		not have the -c	option,	you will need GNU diff for aepatch(1)
		to work	(and the aepatch(1) tests to pass).  Context
		differences are	also helpful for reviewing changes.  GNU diff
		is essential for Solaris, because the Solaris diff has bugs
		that Aegis' tests uncover.

	GNU patch
		For best results with the aepatch(1) and aedist(1) when
		receiving change sets, you need	the GNU	patch utility.

	iso-codes
		This package provides the ISO 639 and ISO 639-3	language code
		lists, the ISO 3166 territory code list, list as XML files.
		Homepage: http://pkg-isocodes.alioth.debian.org/

	RCS	This is	a source control package, and is available from	any of
		the GNU	archives.  (It is best to compile and install RCS
		after GNU diff.	 This is because the RCS configuration hard-
		codes the pathnames of the GNU diff utilities it needs into
		the RCS	executables.)  This package isn't essential as Aegis
		comes with its own aesvt(1) history tool - although you	are
		free to	use any	history	tool you like.

	GNU Gettext
		Many systems do	not yet	supply the gettext(3) function.	 Aegis
		uses this function to internationalize its error messages.  If
		your system does not have this function, you should fetch and
		install	GNU Gettext before running the configure script.  If
		you do not, Aegis will still work, but the error messages will
		be rather terse, even for English speakers.  (You will be able
		to tell	if your	system has the internationalization library
		and functions, because the configure script will report
		finding	-lintl and (CWlibintl.h	and msgfmt in its running
		commentary.)  Please note that the GNU Gettext implementation
		is likely to be	superior to the	one supplied with your system,
		if any.	 Remember to use the GNU gettext configure --with-gnu-
		gettext	option if your system has native gettext tools.

		Please note: if	you install GNU	gettext	package	into
		/usr/local (for	example) you must ensure that the Aegis
		./configure script is told to also look	in /usr/local/include
		for include files (CFLAGS), and	/usr/local/lib for library
		files (LDFLAGS).  Otherwise the	./configure script will
		incorrectly conclude that GNU Gettext has not been installed.

		GNU Gettext version 0.11.1 or later is recommended.

	GNU Groff
		This GNU software replaces the documentation tools which
		(sometimes) come with UNIX.  They produce superior error
		messages, and support a	wider range of functionality and
		fonts.	The Aegis User Guide was prepared with GNU Groff.  You
		need GNU Groff 1.14 or later.

	bison	This GNU software is a replacement for yacc(1).	 Some systems
		have very sick yaccs, and bison	may be necessary if your
		system include files disagree strongly with your system's
		yacc.  The generated Makefile will use bison if	you have it.

	fhist	This software, available under the terms of the	GNU General
		Public License,	is a set of file history and comparison
		utilities.  It was originally written by David I. Bell,	and is
		based on the minimal difference	algorithm by Eugene W. Myers.
		This copy is enhanced and maintained by	the same author	as
		Aegis, and may be found	at the same archive site, in the same
		directory.

	rx	This library provides POSIX regular expressions, for systems
		which don't have them.	(Note: test 81 will fail if the	POSIX
		regular	expression functions are not available.)

	zlib	This library provides access to	the GNU	Zip (de)compression
		algorithm(s).  It is essential to have this installed before
		you build Aegis.  The home page	may be found at
		http://www.gzip.org/zlib/ if you need to download it.  Note:
		this is	not the	same as	zlibc which is Linux specific.

	tkdiff	This program shows the difference between two text files,
		nicely highlighted in color.  This is used by the tkaer	and
		aecomp scripts (and probably others as they are	contributed).
		By John	M. Klassa, http://www.ede.com/free/tkdiff

	libmagic
		If libmagic(3) is present, the aeget(1)	CGI handler will use
		it to determine	the MIME type of files.	 This is installed by
		file version 4.0 and later (ftp://ftp.astron.com/pub/file/),
		and uses the same database as the file(1) command.  If this
		library	is not present when Aegis is built, a much less
		accurate method	will be	used.

	The tests also depend on the presence of a number of common UNIX
	programs, including but	not limited to:	cc, cmp, diff, ed, find, make,
	etc.  Depending	on your	version	of UNIX, some or all of	these programs
	may be in optional packages.  (This is especially true of Linux.)  You
	need to	ensure that these programs are correctly installed before you
	run the	tests.

TESTING	AEGIS
	The Aegis program comes	with a test suite.  To run this	test suite,
	use the	command
		% make sure
		...lots	of output...
		Passed All Tests
		%

	The tests take a minute	or two each, with a few	very fast, and a
	couple very slow, but it varies	greatly	depending on your CPU.

   Known Problems
	In order to get	the long form of the error messages on Solaris,	it is
	necessary to install GNU Gettext before	running	./configure, and once
	./configure has	been run you need to edit the Makefile to statically
	link the executables.

	The test/00/t0011a.sh file assumes the cook(1) command by the author
	is somewhere in	the command search path.  This test reproduces the
	example	used in	Chapter	3 of the User Guide.  If the cook(1) command
	is not available, this test gives a pass result	without	testing
	anything.

	If you are using HPUX and GCC, test 32 fails if	you use	-O2.  You need
	to edit	the Makefile to	only optimize at -O, delete the	objects	and
	rebuild.

	If you are using Solaris' diff,	test 133 will report "no result".  You
	need to	install	GNU diff, because the Solaris diff has bugs.

	If you are using Sun's tmpfs file system as your /tmp directory, the
	tests will fail.  This is because the tmpfs file system	does not
	support	file locking.  Set the AEGIS_TMP environment variable to
	somewhere else before running the tests.  Something like
		% setenv AEGIS_TMP /usr/tmp
		%
	is usually sufficient if you are using C shell,	or
		$ AEGIS_TMP=/usr/tmp
		$ export AEGIS_TMP
		$
	if you are using Bourne	shell.	Remember, this must be done before
	running	the tests.

	If the tests fail due to errors	complaining of "user too privileged"
	you will need to adjust	the AEGIS_MIN_UID defined in the
	common/config.h	file.  Similarly for "group too	privileged", although
	this is	rarer.	This error message will	also occur if you run the
	tests as root: the tests must be run as	a mortal each time.

	If the POSIX regular expression	functions are not available, test 81
	will fail.  The	GNU rx library provides	these.	Installing it and re-
	configuring and	re-building Aegis will solve the problem.

TESTING	SET-UID-ROOT
	If the Aegis program is	not set-uid-root then it runs in "test"	mode
	which gives you	some confidence	that Aegis is working before being
	tested again when it is	set-uid-root.  Two pass	testing	like this
	means that you need not	trust your system to a set-uid-root program
	which is not known to work.

	You will need to do a little of	the install, to	create the directory
	which will contain Aegis' lock file.  (Note that these building
	instructions assume you	are using the default /usr/local as the
	install	prefix.	 You will need to substitute as	appropriate if you are
	using some other prefix.)
		# make install-libdir
		mkdir /usr/local/lib/aegis
		chown 3	/usr/local/lib/aegis
		chgrp 3	/usr/local/lib/aegis
		chmod 0755 /usr/local/lib/aegis
		mkdir /usr/local/com/aegis
		chown 3	/usr/local/com/aegis
		chgrp 3	/usr/local/com/aegis
		chmod 0755 /usr/local/com/aegis
		chown root bin/aegis
		chmod 4755 bin/aegis
		#
	As you can see,	the previous command also changed Aegis	to be set-uid-
	root.  Once this has been done,	Aegis should be	tested again, in the
	same manner as before.
		% make sure
		...lots	of output...
		Passed All Tests
		%

	You should test	Aegis as a mortal in both passes, rather than as root,
	to be sure the set-uid-root functionality is working correctly.

	It is required that Aegis run set-uid-root for all of its
	functionality to be available.	It is NOT possible to create an
	"aegis"	account	and make Aegis run set-uid-aegis.  This	is because
	Aegis does things as various different user IDs, sometimes as many as
	3 in the one command.  This allows Aegis to use	UNIX security rather
	than inventing its own,	and also allows	Aegis to work across NFS.  To
	be able	to do these things, Aegis must be set-uid-root.	 Appendix D of
	the Aegis User Guide explains why Aegis	must run set-uid-root; please
	read it	if you have concerns.

INSTALLING AEGIS
	As explained in	the SITE CONFIGURATION section,	above, the Aegis
	package	is installed under the /usr/local tree by default.  Use	the
	--prefix=PATH option to	configure if you want some other path.

	All that is required to	install	the Aegis package is to	use the
		% make install
		...lots	of output...
		%
	command.  Control of the directories used may be found in the first
	few lines of the Makefile file if you want to bypass the configure
	script.

	The above procedure assumes that the soelim(1) command is somewhere in
	the command search PATH.  The soelim(1)	command	is available as	part
	of the GNU Groff package, mentioned below in the PRINTED MANUALS
	section.  If you don't have it,	but you	do have	the cook package, then
	a link from roffpp to soelim will also work.

	The above procedure also assumes that the $(prefix)/man/man1 and
	$(prefix)/man/man5 directories already exist.  If they do not, you
	will need to mkdir them	manually.

USER CONFIGURATION
	The Aegis command is assumed to	be in a	generally accessible place,
	otherwise users	will need to add the relevant directory	to their PATH.
	Users should add
		source /usr/local/lib/aegis/cshrc
	to the end of their .cshrc file	for the	recommended aliases.  (Note
	that these building instructions assume	you are	using the default
	/usr/local as the install prefix.  You will need to substitute as
	appropriate if you are using some other	prefix.)

	There is also a	profile	for users of the Bourne	shell (it assumes you
	have a version of the Bourne shell which has functions).  Users	should
	add
		. /usr/local/share/aegis/profile
	to the end of their .profile file for the recommended aliases.	(This
	profile	assumes	that users are using a Bourne shell which understands
	functions.)

	The /usr/local/com/aegis/state file contains pointers to "system"
	projects.  Users may add their own project pointers (to	their own
	projects) by putting a search path into	the AEGIS_PATH environment
	variable.  The system part is always automatically appended by Aegis.
	The default, already set by the	/usr/local/lib/aegis/cshrc file, is
	$HOME/lib/aegis.  Do not create	this directory,	Aegis is finicky and
	wants to do this itself.

	Where projects reside is completely flexible, be they system projects
	or user	projects.  They	are not	kept under the /usr/local/com/aegis
	directory, this	directory only contains	pointers.  (Note that these
	building instructions assume you are using the default /usr/local as
	the install prefix.  You will need to substitute as appropriate	if you
	are using some other prefix.)

   Web Interface
	If you have a Web server, you may like to install the Aegis web
	interface.  You	do this	by copying the aeget script from
	/usr/local/bin/aeget into your web server's cgi-bin directory.	There
	is a aeget.instal helper script, if you	don't know where your web
	server's cgi-bin directory is.

	You may	prefer to use a	symbolic link, as this will be more stable
	across Aegis upgrades.	However, this requires a corresponding follow-
	symlinks setting in your web server's configuration file.  (Use	the
	aeget.instal -s	option.)

	You may	need to	wrap aeget with	a script which sets the	AEGIS_PATH
	environment variable, if you want it to	be able	to see more projects
	than just the global projects.	You may	also need to set the PATH
	environment variable, if you don't have	the Aegis install path in the
	default	path.

	(Note that these building instructions assume you are using the
	default	/usr/local as the install prefix.  You will need to substitute
	as appropriate if you are using	some other prefix.)

PRINTED	MANUALS
	This distribution contains the sources to all of the documentation for
	Aegis, however the simplest way	to get the documentation is by
	anonymous FTP; PostScript files	of the User Guide and Reference	Manual
	are available from the FTP sites listed	in the README file.

	The Reference Manual contains the README and BUILDING files, as	well
	as all of the section 1	and section 5 manual pages.  The Reference
	Manual is about	200 pages long.

	The User Guide contains	information about how to use Aegis, including
	a fully	worked example.	 The User Guide	is about 100 pages long.

TIME SYNCHRONIZATION
	The Aegis program uses time stamps to remember whether various events
	have happened and when.	 If you	are using Aegis	in a networked
	environment, typically a server	and data-less workstations, you	need
	to make	absolutely sure	that all of the	machines agree about the time.

	If possible, use the time daemon.  Otherwise, use rdate(8) via cron(8)
	every hour or less.

GETTING	HELP
	If you need assistance with Aegis, please do not hesitate to contact
	the author at
		Peter Miller <pmiller@opensource.org.au>
	Any and	all feedback is	welcome.

	When reporting problems, please	include	the version number given by
	the
		% aegis	-version
		aegis version 4.25.D505
		...
		%
	command.  Please run this command to get the exact number, do not send
	the text of this example.

   Runtime Checking
	In the common/main.h file, there is a define of	DEBUG in comments.  If
	the comments are removed, extensive debugging is turned	on.  This
	causes some performance	loss, but performs much	run-time checking and
	adds the -TRAce	command	line option.

	When the -TRAce	command	line option is followed	by one or more file
	names, it turns	on execution traces in those source files.  It is
	usually	best to	place this on the end of the command line so that
	names of the files to be traced	are not	confused with other file names
	or strings on the command line.

   Problem Reports
	If you send email to the author, please	include	the following
	information:

	1. The type of UNIX
		The author will	need to	know the brand and version of UNIX you
		are using, or if it is not UNIX	but something else.  The
		output of "uname -sr" is usually sufficient (but not all
		systems	have it).

	2. The Version Number
		In any information you send, please include the	version	number
		reported in the	common/patchlevel.h file, or `aegis -vers` if
		you can	get it to compile.

	3. The Archive Site
		When and where you obtained this version of Aegis.  If you
		tell me	nothing	else, tell me this (and, hopefully, why	you
		did nothing else).

	4. Unpacking
		Did you	have problems unpacking	Aegis?	This probably isn't a
		problem	with the .tar.Z	distribution, but you could have
		obtained a shar	format copy.

	5. Building
		Did you	have problems building Aegis?  This could have been
		the instructions included, it could have been the configure
		script,	it could have been the Makefile, or anything else.

	6. Testing, Non-Set-Uid
		Did you	have problems with the tests?  You could have had
		problems running them, or some of them could have failed.  If
		some tests fail	but not	others,	please let me know which ones
		failed,	and include the	fact that Aegis	was not	set-uid-root
		at the time.  The -k option to make can	be useful if some
		tests fail but not others.

	7. Testing, Set-Uid-Root
		Did you	have problems with the tests when Aegis	was set-uid-
		root?  You could have had problems running them, or some of
		them could have	failed.	 If some tests fail but	not others,
		please let me know which ones failed, and include the fact
		that Aegis was set-uid-root at the time.

	8. Installation
		Did you	have problems installing Aegis?	 This could have been
		the instructions, or anything else.

	At this	point it would probably	be a very good idea to print out the
	manual entries and read	them carefully.	 You will also want to print a
	copy of	the User Guide;	if you don't have groff, there should be a
	PostScript copy	at the archive site.  It is a known flaw that the User
	Guide is incomplete, contributions are most welcome.

	9. The Example Project
		After reading the User Guide, it is often useful to manually
		run through the	example	in chapter 3.  You will	need to	do
		more than one change, hopefully	several; the first change is
		not representative of the system.  Did you manually do the
		example?  Did you find flaws in	the User Guide or manual
		entries?

	10. Using Aegis
		Did you	have problems using Aegis?  This is a whole can	of
		worms.	If possible, include a shell script similar to the
		tests which accompany Aegis, which reproduces the bug.	Exit
		code 1 on failure (bug), exit code 0 on	success	(for when bug
		is fixed).

	11. The	Source Code
		Did you	read the code?	Did you	write some code?  If you read
		the code and found problems, fixed them, or extended Aegis,
		these contributions are	most welcome.  I reserve the right to
		modify or reject such contributions.

	The above list is inclusive, not exclusive.  Any and all feedback is
	greatly	appreciated, as	is the effort and interest required to produce
	it.

LICENSE
	The Aegis program is free software; you	can redistribute it and/or
	modify it under	the terms of the GNU General Public License as
	published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
	License, or (at	your option) any later version.

	The Aegis program is distributed in the	hope that it will be useful,
	but WITHOUT ANY	WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	MERCHANTABILITY	or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
	General	Public License for more	details.

	It should be in	the LICENSE file included in this distribution.

AUTHOR
	Peter Miller   E-Mail:	 pmiller@opensource.org.au
	/\/\*		  WWW:	 http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/

WINDOWS-NT
	It is possible to build	Aegis for Windows-NT.  I have only done	this
	using the Cygnus freeware CygWin32 system, though it may be possible
	with other Unix	porting	layers also.

   Caveat
	This document only describes a single user port	of Aegis to Windows
	NT.

	Aegis depends on the underlying	security provided by the operating
	system (rather than re-invent yet another security mechanism).
	However, in order to do	this, Aegis uses the POSIX seteuid(2) system
	call, which has	no direct equivalent on	Windows	NT.  This makes
	porting	difficult.  Single user	ports are possible (e.g. using Cygwin
	(http://www.cygwin.com/), but are not usually what folks want.

	Compounding this is the	fact that many sites want to develop their
	software for both Unix and Windows NT simultaneously.  This means that
	the security of	the repository needs to	be guaranteed to be handled in
	the same way by	both operating systems,	otherwise one can act as a
	"back door" into the repository.  Many sites do	not have the same
	users and permissions (sourced from the	same network register of
	users) on both Unix and	Windows	NT, making the mapping almost
	impossible even	if the security	models did actually correspond.

	Most sites using Aegis and Windows NT together do so by	running	Aegis
	on the Unix systems, but building and testing on the NT	systems.  The
	work areas and repository are accessed via Samba or NFS.

   The Source
	You need to FTP	the Cygwin system from RedHat.	It can be found	at
		http://www.cygwin.com/
	and then follow	the links.  The	original version used was B20.1, but
	more recently 1.1.7 has	been used.

	It is absolutely essential to run the mkpasswd and mkgroup commands,
	otherwise Aegis	will give fatal	errors about unknown users and groups.
	See the	Cygwin README for instructions.

   Mounting Things
	You need to mount a directory onto /tmp, or lots of things, and
	especially bash(1), don't work.	 If you	are in a heavily networked
	environment, like me, you need to know that using a networked drive
	for /tmp just doesn't work.  I have no idea why.  Use
		mount C:/temp /tmp
	instead.  (Or some other local drive.)

	Just a tip for all of you who, like me,	know Unix much better than you
	know Windows-NT: the left-hand mount argument needs to be specified
	with a drive letter (e.g. C:) rather than with a double	slash (e.g.
	not //C) unless	its Windows-NT name starts with	\\.

	You need to follow the install instructions about /bin/sh, otherwise
	shell scripts that start with #!/bin/sh	don't work, among other
	things.	 This includes the ./configure script, and the scripts it
	writes (e.g. config.status).

	You will want to mount your various network drives onto	the same
	places they appear on your Unix	hosts.	This way you don't need	to
	learn two names	for all	your files.

	Mounts persist across Cygwin sessions.	They are stored	in a registry
	file somewhere.	 You will not need to do all this every	time!

   Too Much Administrator
	If you have administrator privilege on your Windows NT box, you	need
	to get rid of it.  (Have a second admin	account	instead.)  This	is
	because	Windows	NT will	make the files belong to the wrong user	for
	files on some partitions, like /tmp.  (This took me days to work out!)
	This confuses both Aegis and RCS.

	If you get weird "Permission denied" errors from amazingly unlikely
	causes,	this is	probably why.

   Before You Start
	There are several pieces of software you need before you can build
	Aegis on Cygwin.

	I'm going to keep mentioning "your local GNU mirror".  You can find
		GNU at http://www.gnu.org, however you are better off using a
		local mirror, and these	are scattered around the globe.
		Follow the "mirrors" link on their front page to find your
		closest	mirror.	 Also, it's often a good idea to configure
		these packages with the	"-with-gnu-gettext" option to their
		./configure commands.

	Do not use WinZip to unpack the	tarball.  It has a nasty habit of
		turning	all of the newlines into CRLFs.	 This will confuse
		lots of	utilities, especially GNU Groff.  Use the "tar xzf
		aegis-4.25.tar.gz" command from	within Cygwin.

	Make sure the Cygwin you are using has GNU Groff 1.15 or later
		(use a "groff -v" command).  Grab and install the latest from
		your local GNU mirror, if it isn't.

	util-linux
		You need to get	GNU rx,	but to make it work you	have to	find a
		tsort command, so that GNU rx's	./configure script works.  Try
		the latest copy	of system/misc/util-linux-?.?.tar.gz from the
		metalab.unc.edu	Linux archive (or a mirror).  Simply build and
		install	misc-utils/tsort.c by hand.

	GNU rx	Once you have tsort installed, you will	be able	to get GNU rx
		configured.  Get a copy	from your local	GNU mirror.

	zlib	You need to grab a copy	of zlib; the same source as works for
		Unix will work for Cygwin.  It will install as a static
		library.

	GNU diffutils
		You need GNU diffults, because when you	come to	configure GNU
		RCS (next) it would otherwise complain about a stupid diff and
		a missing diff3	command.  The install-sh script	is broken, so
		you'll need to do the final step in the	install	by hand.

	GNU RCS	All of Aegis' tests assume RCS is present.  Also, you are
		going to need something	for a history tool.  The install-sh
		script is broken, so you'll need to do the final step in the
		install	by hand.

   Configure
	The configure and build	step should be the same	as for Unix, as
	described above.  All the problems I encountered were to do with
	getting	the mounts just	right.	(But expect it to be dog slow compared
	to Linux or FreeBSD on the same	box.)

	Sharutils
		You need the uudecode command for several of the tests,	and
		this may be found in the GNU Sharutils package.	 You can get a
		copy from your local GNU mirror.

	The configure step is almost the same as for Unix.  I know you are
	itching	to get typing, but read	through	to the install section before
	you configure anything.
		bash$ ./configure
		...lots	of output...
		bash$

   Build
	The build step is exactly the same as for Unix,	and you	shouldn't
	notice any difference...
		bash$ make
		bash$

   Test
	The tests are run in the same way as the Unix tests, but you don't
	need to	run the	set-uid-root variants, because no such thing exists
	under Windows NT.
		bash$ make sure
		...lots	of output...
		Passed All Tests
		bash$

	Unfortunately, it isn't	that simple.  There are	a number of things you
	will see go wrong...

	+o Several tests	fail because ed	isn't there.

	+o Several tests	fail because ci	(RCS 5.7) dumps	core much too often
	  for my liking.

	+o A couple of tests fail because they don't expect the ".exe"
	  extension on executable files.

	+o A couple of tests (notably, the aedist tests)	fail because of	the
	  CRLF vs NL dichotomy.	 This means that the expected results don't
	  match, not that it isn't working.

	Despite	all the	bad news, the vast majority of tests pass, and the
	others have good excuses.

   Install
	Installing the software	works as usual,	though you need	to make	some
	choices	right at the start (I told you to read this all	the way
	through	first).	 If you	want to	use the	"/usr/local" prefix (or	any
	other install prefix) you mount	it right at the	start.	For anything
	other than the "/usr/local" default prefix, you	also needed to give a
	"-prefix=blahblah" argument to the configure script, right at the
	start.
		bash$ make install
		...lots	of output...
		bash$

	// vim:	set ts=8 sw=4 et :

Reference Manual		     Aegis			  Build(Aegis)
